
.TH "JSON-VIEW" "1" "May 2025" "json-view 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
json-view \- terminal JSON viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B json-view
.RI [ FILE\ .\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B json-view
displays JSON data in a navigable tree using the
.BR ncurses (3x)
library.  If no
.I FILE
is provided the program reads a single document from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h , --help
Show usage information.
.TP
.B -V , --version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B --no-mouse
Disable mouse support and rely on keyboard input only. This can also be
enabled by setting the environment variable JSON_VIEW_NO_MOUSE=1.
.TP
.B --ascii
Render tree branches and icons using plain ASCII characters. This can also be
enabled by setting the environment variable JSON_VIEW_ASCII=1.
.TP
.B --color-scheme \fIname\fR
Select a color scheme. Valid values are \fBdefault\fR, \fBcolorblind\fR and
\fBnone\fR to disable all colors. This can also be set via the environment
variable JSON_VIEW_COLOR_SCHEME.
.SH KEYS
The interface responds to the following keys:
.TP
.B Up/Down
Move the selection.
.TP
.B Left/Right
Collapse or expand the current node.
.TP
.B PgUp/PgDn
Move one page up or down.
.TP
.B Home/End
Jump to the first or last visible item.
.TP
.B s / S
Search keys or values.
.TP
.B n / N
Jump to the next or previous search match.
.TP
.B c
Clear current search results.
.TP
.B t
Cycle the active color scheme.
.TP
.B + / -
Expand all or collapse all nodes.
.TP
.B 0-9
Expand to a specific nesting level (0 collapses all).
.TP
.B y
Copy the selected JSON subtree to the clipboard (via OSC 52 when supported).
.TP
.B Mouse
Click to select rows. Click to the left of a label or double-click to expand or collapse nodes. Click footer hints to trigger their actions and click anywhere on the help screen to close it.
.TP
.B ?
Show the in-application help screen.
.TP
.B q
Quit the program.
.SH SEE ALSO
The Texinfo manual for
.B json-view
may be viewed with
.BR info (1):
.RS
.nf
info json-view
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
C. Klukas
